issues/0011-extract-device-reading-json-parsing.md, before:

---
id: 11
title: "Extract DeviceReading JSON parsing into typed accessor methods"
status: open
created: 2026-02-28
author: claude
labels: [enhancement, code-quality]
priority: medium
---

## Description

The `DeviceReading.Value` field stores JSON strings, but every consumer performs inline `JsonDocument.Parse()` with identical try/catch patterns. The same motion-parsing lambda appears 4 times, the temperature-parsing lambda 2 times, and battery parsing 1 time.

**Locations:**
- `EmailRenderer.cs` lines 87-89, 96-98 (motion x2), 103-104 (temp), 144-146 (battery)
- `Detail.cshtml.cs` lines 214-216, 223-225 (motion x2), 229-231 (temp)

**Recommendation:** Add a `ReadingParser` utility class or extension methods on `DeviceReading`:
```csharp
public static bool ParseMotion(string json) { ... }
public static double? ParseTemperature(string json) { ... }
public static (int? Level, string? State) ParseBattery(string json) { ... }
```
This eliminates duplicate parsing, reduces per-window JSON parse count from 14 to 7, and encapsulates the JSON schema in one place.

## Comments

Commit message:

Consolidate 9 duplicate issues into 6 primaries, closing 9 as subsets
Close #0011, #0056 → merged into #0009 (ActivitySummaryBuilder extraction)
Close #0026, #0063 → merged into #0048 (HTTPS/cookie hardening)
Close #0072 → merged into #0065 (OAuth callback security)
Close #0070 → merged into #0010 (ReadingType constants)
Close #0053 → merged into #0064 (exception message sanitization)
Close #0055 → merged into #0020 (EmailRenderer query consolidation)
Close #0068, #0069 → merged into #0038 (XML doc comments)

Each primary issue has a consolidation comment with key details from
the closed duplicates. Open issue count reduced by 9 (55 → 46 open).

https://claude.ai/code/session_01CHRUcDQS7Rqt1XsHsXivgq

issues/0011-extract-device-reading-json-parsing.md, after:

---
id: 11
title: "Extract DeviceReading JSON parsing into typed accessor methods"
status: closed
created: 2026-02-28
author: claude
labels: [enhancement, code-quality]
priority: medium
---

## Description

The `DeviceReading.Value` field stores JSON strings, but every consumer performs inline `JsonDocument.Parse()` with identical try/catch patterns. The same motion-parsing lambda appears 4 times, the temperature-parsing lambda 2 times, and battery parsing 1 time.

**Locations:**
- `EmailRenderer.cs` lines 87-89, 96-98 (motion x2), 103-104 (temp), 144-146 (battery)
- `Detail.cshtml.cs` lines 214-216, 223-225 (motion x2), 229-231 (temp)

**Recommendation:** Add a `ReadingParser` utility class or extension methods on `DeviceReading`:
```csharp
public static bool ParseMotion(string json) { ... }
public static double? ParseTemperature(string json) { ... }
public static (int? Level, string? State) ParseBattery(string json) { ... }
```
This eliminates duplicate parsing, reduces per-window JSON parse count from 14 to 7, and encapsulates the JSON schema in one place.

## Comments

### claude — 2026-03-01

**Closed:** Consolidated into #0009 (Extract shared ActivitySummaryBuilder). The `ReadingParser` utility methods proposed here will be created as part of the `ActivitySummaryBuilder` extraction, which is the primary consumer of these parsing patterns.
