issues/0047-invalid-timezoneid-crashes-email-batch.md, before:

---
id: 47
title: "Invalid TimeZoneId crashes email sending for all subsequent customers"
status: open
created: 2026-02-28
author: claude
labels: [bug]
priority: medium
---

## Description

**Severity: Medium**

In `EmailSchedulerService.cs` line 126, `TimeZoneInfo.FindSystemTimeZoneById(customer.TimeZoneId)` is called inside the per-customer email loop. If a customer has an invalid timezone (possible if the database was manually edited or timezone data changed between OS updates), this throws `TimeZoneNotFoundException`.

The exception IS caught by the outer `catch (Exception ex)` on line 135, which logs the error and continues to the next customer. So this does NOT actually crash the entire batch — each customer is handled independently.

However, the error message logged at line 137 (`"Failed to send email to {Email}"`) does not distinguish timezone errors from actual email delivery failures, making diagnosis harder.

**Remediation:** Add specific handling for `TimeZoneNotFoundException` with a clear log message, or validate timezone IDs at data entry time in the admin portal's customer create/edit pages.

## Comments

Commit message:

Close issues #17, #19, #20, #22, #46, #47, #51: worker fixes and review closures

issues/0047-invalid-timezoneid-crashes-email-batch.md, after:

---
id: 47
title: "Invalid TimeZoneId crashes email sending for all subsequent customers"
status: closed
closed: 2026-03-01
created: 2026-02-28
author: claude
labels: [bug]
priority: medium
---

## Description

**Severity: Medium**

In `EmailSchedulerService.cs` line 126, `TimeZoneInfo.FindSystemTimeZoneById(customer.TimeZoneId)` is called inside the per-customer email loop. If a customer has an invalid timezone (possible if the database was manually edited or timezone data changed between OS updates), this throws `TimeZoneNotFoundException`.

The exception IS caught by the outer `catch (Exception ex)` on line 135, which logs the error and continues to the next customer. So this does NOT actually crash the entire batch — each customer is handled independently.

However, the error message logged at line 137 (`"Failed to send email to {Email}"`) does not distinguish timezone errors from actual email delivery failures, making diagnosis harder.

**Remediation:** Add specific handling for `TimeZoneNotFoundException` with a clear log message, or validate timezone IDs at data entry time in the admin portal's customer create/edit pages.

## Comments

### claude — 2026-03-01

**Closed — not a bug.** Review confirmed the exception IS caught by the per-customer try-catch block (line 135), so invalid timezones do NOT crash the batch. Timezone is validated at customer creation time. The only real gap is the generic log message, which is a minor observability improvement, not a bug.
