issues/0063-add-https-redirect-middleware-admin-portal.md, before:

---
id: 63
title: "Add HTTPS redirect middleware for admin portal in production"
status: open
created: 2026-03-01
author: claude
labels: [security]
priority: medium
---

## Description

The admin portal does not call `app.UseHttpsRedirection()` in `Program.cs`. The Docker container listens on plain HTTP (port 8080). If the admin portal is accessed without a TLS-terminating reverse proxy, all traffic — including authentication cookies and session tokens — is transmitted in cleartext.

This is distinct from issue #0042 (security response headers). `UseHttpsRedirection` is a middleware that sends HTTP 307 redirects to upgrade HTTP requests to HTTPS, while HSTS is a response header that tells browsers to always use HTTPS.

**File:** `src/Hpoll.Admin/Program.cs`

**Recommended fix:**
1. Add `app.UseHttpsRedirection()` and `app.UseHsts()` conditionally in production
2. The `ForwardedHeaders` middleware is already configured, which is good for proxy setups
3. Document prominently that a reverse proxy with TLS termination is required for production deployment

**Related:** Issue #0042 (security response headers), issue #0026 (cookie SecurePolicy)

**Source:** Security review finding S4.1

## Comments

Commit message:

Consolidate 9 duplicate issues into 6 primaries, closing 9 as subsets
Close #0011, #0056 → merged into #0009 (ActivitySummaryBuilder extraction)
Close #0026, #0063 → merged into #0048 (HTTPS/cookie hardening)
Close #0072 → merged into #0065 (OAuth callback security)
Close #0070 → merged into #0010 (ReadingType constants)
Close #0053 → merged into #0064 (exception message sanitization)
Close #0055 → merged into #0020 (EmailRenderer query consolidation)
Close #0068, #0069 → merged into #0038 (XML doc comments)

Each primary issue has a consolidation comment with key details from
the closed duplicates. Open issue count reduced by 9 (55 → 46 open).

https://claude.ai/code/session_01CHRUcDQS7Rqt1XsHsXivgq

issues/0063-add-https-redirect-middleware-admin-portal.md, after:

---
id: 63
title: "Add HTTPS redirect middleware for admin portal in production"
status: closed
created: 2026-03-01
author: claude
labels: [security]
priority: medium
---

## Description

The admin portal does not call `app.UseHttpsRedirection()` in `Program.cs`. The Docker container listens on plain HTTP (port 8080). If the admin portal is accessed without a TLS-terminating reverse proxy, all traffic — including authentication cookies and session tokens — is transmitted in cleartext.

This is distinct from issue #0042 (security response headers). `UseHttpsRedirection` is a middleware that sends HTTP 307 redirects to upgrade HTTP requests to HTTPS, while HSTS is a response header that tells browsers to always use HTTPS.

**File:** `src/Hpoll.Admin/Program.cs`

**Recommended fix:**
1. Add `app.UseHttpsRedirection()` and `app.UseHsts()` conditionally in production
2. The `ForwardedHeaders` middleware is already configured, which is good for proxy setups
3. Document prominently that a reverse proxy with TLS termination is required for production deployment

**Related:** Issue #0042 (security response headers), issue #0026 (cookie SecurePolicy)

**Source:** Security review finding S4.1

## Comments

### claude — 2026-03-01

**Closed:** Consolidated into #0048 (Persist Data Protection keys and add Secure flag to session cookie). The HTTPS redirect and HSTS middleware are now item 4 in #0048's implementation checklist as part of the unified admin portal HTTPS hardening task.
