issues/0069-polling-service-motion-comment-inaccurate.md, before:

---
id: 69
title: "PollingService motion detection comment is inaccurate per Hue API docs"
status: open
created: 2026-03-01
author: claude
labels: [documentation]
priority: medium
---

## Description

The inline comment at `PollingService.cs` lines 121-125 states: "The Hue API motion boolean is momentary and resets quickly, so with 60-minute polling we'd miss most events if we relied on it directly."

Per the Hue CLIP v2 API documentation (`sensors.md`):
- `motion_report.motion` reflects the **current sensor state** (not a latched event)
- `motion_report.changed` is the **timestamp of the last state transition**
- The motion sensor holds its `true` state for a sensor-specific cooldown period (typically 10-30 seconds), not "momentary"

The comment's claim that the boolean "resets quickly" oversimplifies. The code's approach (using `changed` timestamp as a "motion occurred since last poll" indicator) is correct, but the explanation of *why* is imprecise.

**Location:** `src/Hpoll.Worker/Services/PollingService.cs` lines 121-125

**Recommendation:** Revise to: "The Hue API motion_report.motion reflects the current sensor state and motion_report.changed is the timestamp of the last state transition. Since polling happens infrequently (e.g., every 60 minutes), the motion boolean will likely have returned to false by the time we poll. Instead, we check whether changed is more recent than our last poll — if so, the sensor detected motion at some point during the interval."

*Found during comprehensive review (documentation review, cross-referenced with Hue API sensors.md).*

## Comments

Commit message:

Consolidate 9 duplicate issues into 6 primaries, closing 9 as subsets
Close #0011, #0056 → merged into #0009 (ActivitySummaryBuilder extraction)
Close #0026, #0063 → merged into #0048 (HTTPS/cookie hardening)
Close #0072 → merged into #0065 (OAuth callback security)
Close #0070 → merged into #0010 (ReadingType constants)
Close #0053 → merged into #0064 (exception message sanitization)
Close #0055 → merged into #0020 (EmailRenderer query consolidation)
Close #0068, #0069 → merged into #0038 (XML doc comments)

Each primary issue has a consolidation comment with key details from
the closed duplicates. Open issue count reduced by 9 (55 → 46 open).

https://claude.ai/code/session_01CHRUcDQS7Rqt1XsHsXivgq

issues/0069-polling-service-motion-comment-inaccurate.md, after:

---
id: 69
title: "PollingService motion detection comment is inaccurate per Hue API docs"
status: closed
created: 2026-03-01
author: claude
labels: [documentation]
priority: medium
---

## Description

The inline comment at `PollingService.cs` lines 121-125 states: "The Hue API motion boolean is momentary and resets quickly, so with 60-minute polling we'd miss most events if we relied on it directly."

Per the Hue CLIP v2 API documentation (`sensors.md`):
- `motion_report.motion` reflects the **current sensor state** (not a latched event)
- `motion_report.changed` is the **timestamp of the last state transition**
- The motion sensor holds its `true` state for a sensor-specific cooldown period (typically 10-30 seconds), not "momentary"

The comment's claim that the boolean "resets quickly" oversimplifies. The code's approach (using `changed` timestamp as a "motion occurred since last poll" indicator) is correct, but the explanation of *why* is imprecise.

**Location:** `src/Hpoll.Worker/Services/PollingService.cs` lines 121-125

**Recommendation:** Revise to: "The Hue API motion_report.motion reflects the current sensor state and motion_report.changed is the timestamp of the last state transition. Since polling happens infrequently (e.g., every 60 minutes), the motion boolean will likely have returned to false by the time we poll. Instead, we check whether changed is more recent than our last poll — if so, the sensor detected motion at some point during the interval."

*Found during comprehensive review (documentation review, cross-referenced with Hue API sensors.md).*

## Comments

### claude — 2026-03-01

**Closed:** Consolidated into #0038 (Add XML documentation comments to public interfaces and services). This finding was already identified in #0038's existing comments ("PollingService motion comment: States the boolean 'resets quickly' which is imprecise"). The proposed replacement comment text has been incorporated into #0038.
